---
layout: page
title: Literary Audio Recording Project
permalink: /output_documents/509.01_Winter_2019_Recording_project.html
last_name: Wiens
first_name: Jason
email: jlwiens@ucalgary.ca
institution: 'Calgary, U. of '
title_of_doc: Literary Audio Recording Project
file_name: 509.01 Winter 2019 Recording project.docx
original_doc_type: Project
primary_discipline: Literary Studies
url: .nan

---
English 509.01 Literary Audio Recording Project

Due: Varies (see course schedule) Value: 25% of your final grade

This project will be completed by **three groups** of **eight or nine
students** per group. Working with Isabelle Groenhof, the research
assistant for this project, each group will attend and record one of
three readings held by the Literary Flywheel this winter. Flywheel
events take place the second Thursday of every month at Pages in
Kensington, at 7:30 pm. The dates for each of these readings are
**January 10**, **February 14**, and **March 14**. Students will then,
assisted by Ms. Groenhof and library staff, upload the recorded file to
a digital collection in the TFDL. Students will describe the audio file
through a metadata template, providing information such as the names of
the readers, the date and location of the reading, etc.

Each student will then **individually**, again working with Isabelle
Groenhof, use Audacity or Garage Band to select one poem / story / text,
whatever part of the reading they choose, and share that particular
recording with the rest of the class (and the world) at
**omeka.ucalgary.ca**. Students will describe the audio file through a
metadata template, providing information such as the names of the
readers, the date and location of the reading, etc. Students will need
to coordinate with the other members of their group so they do not
duplicate each other's selections. In the case of longer stories or
poems, selecting portions of the text is acceptable (even necessary,
given the size of each group). Each student will then **individually**
write a 5-6 page review of the reading they attended, evaluating the
performances of each reader at the event, and explaining why they
selected the text they shared with the rest of the class. This should
involve some critical discussion of the text selected. Students will be
evaluated both as a group, in terms of the quality of the audio
recordings, and the detail and accuracy of the metadata, and
individually, in terms of the normal criteria for an English essay
(clarity and effectiveness of writing and argument, proper formatting
etc).

Throughout the term, we will be reading critical perspectives on the
literary reading as an institution; students are welcome (even
encouraged) to cite these critical writings in their essays, but these
are the only secondary sources that should be referenced in these
papers.

On designated days in the term, we will as a class turn our attention to
the audio texts selected by members of the class to share. In this way,
students will determine part of the 'listenings' for our course.
However, due to time constraints, it is unlikely we will be able to
discuss every text selected to share with the rest of the class.

Please note that this project is part of a research study funded by the
Taylor Institute. Students who participate in the recording part of the
project will be asked to sign waivers acknowledging that they are aware
these recordings will be part of an ongoing digital collection in the
TFDL. Students who do not wish to be acknowledged as the recorders and
describers of these recordings can have their names removed from the
metadata (while still receiving credit for completing the assignment).

Students may contact Isabelle Groenhof at isabelle.groenhof@ucalgary.ca

**Please note**: This is **not** a conventional group project insofar as
students are **not** expected to "present" their materials to the class
in a formal presentation. Students are expected, however, to be prepared
to discuss their work, both as a group and as individuals, on the day we
discuss the texts which they shared with the class (recognizing that not
all shared texts will be discussed). Students who are not present when
we discuss the text they worked on will have their grade on the
assignment penalized by 1/3 of a letter grade.
