---
layout: page
title: E-Locution / Deformance Assignment
permalink: /output_documents/509.02_Deformance_Assignment.html
last_name: Wiens
first_name: Jason
email: jlwiens@ucalgary.ca
institution: 'Calgary, U. of '
title_of_doc: E-Locution / Deformance Assignment
file_name: 509.02 Deformance Assignment.docx
original_doc_type: Prompt
primary_discipline: Literary Studies
url: .nan

---
ENGLISH 509.02 SOUNDING CANADIAN LITERATURE

E-LOCUTION / DEFORMATION ASSIGNMENT

Value: 35% of your final grade Due: April 11, 2019

This final assignment of the term asks you to read from and write about
one of the following books we are studying in the remaining weeks: M.
NourbeSe Philip's *Zong!*; Rachel Zolf's *Janey's Arcadia*; Jordan
Abel's *Injun*; or Joshua Whitehead's *Full Metal Indigiqueer*. All
these books present poems / texts that challenge conventional approaches
to reading. You will record yourself reading / performing selected texts
from your chosen book, and post these recordings to Dropbox in D2L. You
may be as inventive as you wish in these recordings, and may choose to
integrate musical accompaniment or other sound effects, as well as other
voicings into your recordings. You will then discuss your recordings as
performances / deformances of the text, explaining the interpretive
decisions you made in your performances / deformances, and how these
relate to a larger interpretive argument about the text as a whole.
Essays must be 13-15 pages (3250-3750 words), in MLA format.

Your essay should frame your discussion of these texts with some
reference to Lisa Samuels and Jerome McGann's essay "Deformance and
Interpretation," available in D2L and which we will discuss in class.
You will also want to reference the various other theoretical texts we
have read this term that discuss the oral performance of poetry.
Finally, you will need to do your own research and bring to your
discussion at least **two** other peer-reviewed, critical / theoretical
texts, either about the text you are working on specifically, or about
larger questions of orality, decolonial poetics, conceptual writing, or
any other relevant critical argument. Note that there are a number of
critical essays published on the older texts we are studying (*Zong!*
And *Janey's Arcadia*); fewer on the more recent texts (*Injun* and
*Full Metal Indigiqueer*).

Since all of these texts deal in some ways with legacies of / ongoing
racism and colonialism, I expect that your essays will address these
issues in some way. Because you are going to be giving voice to these
texts, you may wish to consider your own positionality in relation to
them. What might it mean for a non-Indigenous / settler-descended
reader, for example, to perform / deform these texts? How might issues
of orality and voice be particularly salient in considering these texts?

While you may build on our collective discussions of these texts in
class, your paper should go well beyond our observations, given the time
and room available to develop a more sophisticated argument.
