---
layout: page
title: Close Listening Assignment
permalink: /output_documents/372.01_Winter_2021_Close_Listening_Assignment.html
last_name: Wiens
first_name: Jason
email: jlwiens@ucalgary.ca
institution: 'Calgary, U. of '
title_of_doc: Close Listening Assignment
file_name: 372.01 Winter 2021 Close Listening Assignment.docx
original_doc_type: Prompt
primary_discipline: Literary Studies
url: .nan

---
**ENGLISH 372.01 WINTER 2021**

**CLOSE LISTENING ASSIGNMENT**

Value: 20% of your final grade Due: Varies (see course schedule)

This assignment will ask you to work with an audio recording of a poem
or story in order to: demonstrate an ability to segment a digital audio
recording in order to cite it to support a claim; engage with different
prosodic elements of a sound performance which might be ignored in a
written text; and compare an oral performance of a text with its written
variant. It will also ask you, in many cases, to consider the context of
a literary reading, that is, a public performance, as impacting the
meaning and reception of a poem or story.

Each student will sign up to work on one of the following poets,
recordings of which are available at the SpokenWeb archive of the Sir
George Williams reading series
(<https://montreal.spokenweb.ca/sgw-poetry-readings/>), PennSound
(<http://writing.upenn.edu/pennsound/>), or on YouTube: Dorothy Livesay,
F.R. Scott, Margaret Atwood, Phyllis Webb, bpNichol, Christian Bök,
Alistair MacLeod, Wayde Compton, or Marilyn Dumont. The print versions
of some of the poems available online as sound recordings are also
available online, but not all. Where print versions are not readily
available online, students will take the necessary step of acquiring a
print version of that poem, through a request with our library; TDFL
staff have been informed of the assignment and can create and email you
a pdf of the poem you have selected to work with. Students may also
consult with Dr. Wiens about locating print versions of these poems. In
the case of bpNichol or Christian Bök, some students may choose to work
with a "sound poem" for which a written version may not exist. This is a
valid option, but students who choose it should consult with Dr. Wiens
about how to proceed (you will probably need to do some further research
on sound poetry). Students who sign up to work with poems other than the
ones listed on the signup sheet need to indicate on the signup sheet
which poem they intend to work with (once they have determined which
poem that is), and should work to make it available to the rest of the
class, through posting to D2L a print version of the poem they are
working with as well as the sound file. All students should also post
the audio recording of the reading of the text to the appropriate
discussion board in D2L, so that the rest of the class can listen to the
recording.

Once you have selected your text, the next step will be to produce a
file that you can edit through Audacity. In the case of PennSound files,
which are downloadable, this is straightforward. In the case of YouTube,
or of the SpokenWeb Sir George Williams recordings, which archives
entire readings and makes them available for streaming, you will need to
take the extra step of creating a "single" of your selected text, either
by recording it directly through your laptop, or through your phone.
*Please note: you are asked to do this only in the context of this
assignment, and the created file should not be shared publicly outside
of D2L.*

Each student will write a 4-5 page close listening essay on their
selected poem or story, which discusses the performance of the text in
terms of tone, pitch, volume, enunciation, or any other elements of the
performance you find significant. For this part of the assignment, Marit
Macarthur et al's essay on "Beyond Poet Voice," and the general
categories of performance styles it elaborates, may be of use here:
<http://culturalanalytics.org/2018/04/beyond-poet-voice-sampling-the-non-performance-styles-of-100-american-poets/>.
Students may also wish to use digital tools (or simple arithmetic) to
quantify elements of the performance (e.g. determining words per minute
in a recording as a measure of speech velocity). Your essay should also
compare the oral version of the text to the written, noting any
significant differences between them and their implications. All of this
should be done in the context of a coherent argument about the text; it
may be surprising how often these texts can be read as being "about"
speaking and writing. The essay must conform to MLA style, and should
involve citation from both the written and audio versions of the text --
hence the need, for the latter, to segment the audio. These essays, with
accompanying audio files, must be submitted in Dropbox on D2L. **As they
will be graded digitally through track changes, the essays must be
submitted in Word format rather than pdf.**

Students do not need to consult secondary sources on this assignment;
however, any secondary sources consulted or referenced must be properly
cited according to MLA format.
