---
layout: page
title: Transcription Exercise
permalink: /output_documents/473.01_Fall_2018_Transcription_Exercise.html
last_name: Wiens
first_name: Jason
email: jlwiens@ucalgary.ca
institution: 'Calgary, U. of '
title_of_doc: Transcription Exercise
file_name: 473.01 Fall 2018 Transcription Exercise.docx
original_doc_type: Exercise
primary_discipline: Literary Studies
url: .nan

---
**ENGLISH 473.01 CANADIAN LITERATURE SINCE 1950**

**TRANSCRIPTION EXERCISE**

Value: 2.5% of your final grade Due: Wednesday, November 28 at 7 p.m.

You have each been assigned one poem, or a section of a poem, that has
been recorded at a Flywheel reading this term, selected by students in
our class, and posted to **omeka.ucalgary.ca**. You will find these
under "Recently Added Items." Listen to your assigned section, and
transcribe the poem into a word document, in 12 point, Garamond font.
Your transcription should notate line breaks, spacing, margins,
punctuation, capitalization, italicization, or any other elements of a
written poem *according to how you interpret the audio recording of the
poem.* Dr. Wiens has been given written versions of each poem by the
poets. This exercise will allow us to compare the different
transcriptions of the poems by different students, and those
transcriptions with the poets' written poems.

Do not put your name or any other information in the word document in
which you transcribe the poem. Submit your transcription to the
appropriate Dropbox in D2L. Because Dr. Wiens may reference these
transcriptions in conference presentations or in future publications,
you have been asked to sign consent forms to have your transcription
kept by Dr. Wiens for these purposes. Your name will never be mentioned
in reference to your transcription or to this assignment in general in
any future public discussion. It is up to you whether you wish to
consent to this or not; but, *you must sign a consent form before this
assignment can be evaluated and you can be given credit for completing
the assignment.* Dr. Wiens will not know who has consented to have their
transcriptions included until after grades have been submitted and the
appeals period is complete. Isabelle Groenhof, the research assistant on
this project, has the consent forms. If you are unable to sign the
consent form in class, please contact her in order to make arrangements
to do so at isabelle.groenhof@ucalgary.ca.

Transcriptions completed with reasonable effort by the deadline will
receive the full 2.5%.

**Please note which audiotext you have been assigned. They have been
assigned alphabetically and largely arbitrarily, with students who wrote
on certain recordings for their archival assignments asked to transcribe
other recordings. Although multiple students have been assigned to the
same texts, *this is not a group assignment.* Please complete your
transcription on your own. We will compare the different transcriptions
in class. Do not transcribe the paraliterary comments (i.e. the host's
introductions, or the poet's introductory remarks). Note that for all
but the Fitzpatrick poem students are transcribing half of a poem.**

Laurie Fuhr, "Your Last Day in Germany" ("on our backs" to "serious
chamber" \[1:35-2:36)): Tracy G., Christine G., Vicky G., Frederike H.,
Timothy H.

Laurie Fuhr, "Your Last Day in Germany" ("cold iron fires down" to "to
base" (2:36-3:10\]): Natasha King, Natasha Krahn, Isabella L., Maggie L.

Ryan Fitzpatrick, "Off Spectrum" (posted on omeka.ucalgary.ca as
"Discourse"): Hailey S., Brandon S., Paige S., Sarah T., Sara T., Neshan
T.

Jeff Kochan, "Anthropological Chorus" ("Nature is often seen" to
"Daedalean light" \[0:34-1:38\]): Shawna M., Tanner N., Lisa P.,
Kaitlynn P., Ronja R.

Jeff Kochan, "Anthropological Chorus" ("On scattered winds" to "ring of
our campfire" \[1:38-2:43\]): Skyler D-D., Molly D., Melody D., Kristen
F., Aimee F.

Jeff Kochan, "After Listening to King Missile" (posted on
omeka.ucalgary.ca as "Detachable Penis")

("If I had to choose" to "all these elbows" \[1:00-1:52\]): Ashley A.,
Nils B., Claire B., Annebelle B., Alex B., Grace C.

("The variable foot uses" to "rhythms that welcomed us" \[1:52-2:47\]):
Krystiana L., Kiara M., Carolina M d M., Kornelia M., Florie M.
