---
layout: page
title: Art and Science of Performative Speech
permalink: /output_documents/ASSIGNMENTS_FOR_FRS4_.html
last_name: MacArthur
first_name: Marit
email: mjmacarthur@ucdavis.edu
institution: California Davis, U. of
title_of_doc: The Art and Science of Performative Speech
file_name: ASSIGNMENTS FOR FRS4 .docx
original_doc_type: Prompt
primary_discipline: Digital Humanities
url: .nan

# with Augusta Funk
---
**FYS 4: THE ART & SCIENCE OF PERFORMATIVE SPEECH**

MacArthur and Miller

**Performative Speech Reflection & Analysis**

Brief reflection on and analysis of a recorded sample of performative
speech, 90-120 seconds,

from stand-up comedy, film, radio, television, political speech, etc.
Sample is chosen by the

student and approved by the instructors*.* Must include a link to the
recording, the integration of shorter clips from the recording, and
sound visualization using Drift, and some analysis of Voxit measures.

*PART 1, due by midnight on 10/5 on the Canvas Discussion board:*

Post links to three samples of performative speech that you might use,
and briefly answer these questions about each one. The samples should be
recordings you have a strong reaction to; they do not have to be
recordings you love, but choose wisely---you will spend a lot of time
listening to and thinking about the sample you choose! 1) How did you
come upon this recording? 2) What interests you about it, in terms of
the speaker, the content, the context (where the performance was
delivered, when, and why), the audience, and so on? 3) Briefly summarize
the content of the recording---what the speaker says. 4) What are your
impressions about the speaker's voice, as they use it in the recording?
Please describe the voice as specifically as you can. 4) Which recording
do you most want to analyze? Do you need help deciding among them?

*Word count*: 250-500 words.

*We will comment on and (likely) approve the recordings ASAP.*

*PART 2, due by midnight on 10/26:*

1\) Provide some background about the sample: who is speaking? Where?
When? Why? To what audience? Where did you find the recording and how
did you hear about it?

2\) Provide a brief, objective summary of the content of the
recording---what the speaker is saying. Avoid quoting more than a few
words.

3\) Then narrate your impressions of the recording you've chosen, in
terms of your listening intuitions about pitch and timing and intensity
patterns and anything else that stands out to you as listen to it.
Please impressionistically describe the voice saying 3-4 specific
phrases or words as precisely as you can. How does the way the speaker
uses their voice and silence influence your understanding of the words?

*Word count:* \~500-750 words

4\) Formulate a series of precise, *testable hypotheses* about what you
think the Gentle and Drift and Voxit analysis will show about the
recording, in terms of at least four Voxit measures, WPM, and any other
pitch and timing and intensity patterns you're interested in.

*Word count*: \~50-100 words

*We will comment on, and may suggest refinements to your hypothesis for
approval, ASAP.*

*PART 3, due by the start of class on 11/18*

1\) Run the sample recording through Gentle and Drift. 2) Share results:
Summarize all of the Voxit data, including a table. 3) Analyze and
discuss the results of your analysis of your performative speech sample.
Were your hypotheses confirmed? Why or why not? Be sure to Include some
screenshots of pitch contours from Drift. 4) Write a brief conclusion.
What did you learn from this experiment that you might apply to future
research?

*Word count*: 1,000\~1,500 words.

**EVALUATION RUBRIC**

\"A\" assignments will do all of the following things successfully (+),
with no more than two areas that might be improved or be done more
consistently (✔).

\"B\" assignments will do all of the following things well, with a no
more than three areas to improve or do more consistently (✔) and/or one
area not done successfully (-).

\"C\" assignments will do most of the following things with multiple
areas to improve and one or two areas that are not done successfully
(-), or will fail to do one or two of the things completely while doing
others very successfully.

\"D\" assignments will do some of the following things adequately, but
will have multiple areas that require substantial improvement (often in
more than one area), or will fail to do specific things that typically
result in a \"D\".

\"F\" assignments will do some things adequately or even successfully,
but the number of areas that are not done or need major improvement will
outnumber those positive aspects.

\_\_ Part 1 includes three samples of the appropriate length.

\_\_ Part I answers all the questions satisfactorily.

\_\_ Part 2 provides adequate background about the recording.

\_\_ Part 2 provides a thoughtful narration of the writer's impressions
of the sample recording, phrase by phrase, with close attention and
potential insight toward a testable hypothesis.

\_\_ Part 2 clearly presents a series of precise, testable hypotheses
about the sample recording that consider at least four Voxit measures,
WPM, and any other pitch and timing and intensity patterns the writer is
interested in.

\_\_ Part 3 clearly presents the Voxit data in a table.

\_\_ Part 3 clearly and thoroughly summarizes the results.

\_\_ Part 3 clearly and thoroughly analyzes the results.

\_\_ Part 3 uses screenshots of pitch contours from Drift to illustrate
the results.

\_\_ Part 3 is clearly written, in focused, coherent paragraphs with
specific topic sentences and smooth, logical transitions.

\_\_ All three parts are carefully proofread and free of typos and
grammatical errors. (Proofread aloud!)

**\
**

**Self-Recording Reflection & Analysis**

Two self-recordings by each student reading the short text, "As a lost
dog," and a brief reflection on and analysis of each recording

*Part 1:* *Due by 2 pm on 9/30*

1\) Silently read through the text a few times. Write a brief, objective
summary of it as best you can, after reading it silently a few times.
Don't do any research; only use a dictionary if needed.

*Word count*: 200-300 words

2\) Then record yourself reading the text in a quiet environment (a
closet is ideal), using Audacity on your laptop, or an app on your
phone. However you record yourself, you must be able to download the
recording on to your laptop and, if necessary, convert it into an MP3 or
a WAV file for analysis.

*Part 2: Due by 2 pm on 10/21*

1\) Listen to the recording of yourself, ideally with headphones, in a
quiet environment. 2) Reflect on your voice and how you use it reading
the text. What do you notice about your voice in the way you read
particular phrases; in answering this question, consider what you
learned from Eliza Jane Schneider about the voice. 3) How does your
voice sound to you recorded, versus the way it sounds inside your head?
Is there anything you particularly like, dislike or simply notice about
your voice and the way you use it, in this recording and in general?
About the way you read the text? 4) How did recording yourself reading
the text, and then listening to it, affect your understanding of the
text, if it did? 5) When you record yourself reading it again, what will
you try to change, if anything?

*Word count:* 250-500 words.

*Part 3: Due by 2 pm on 11/4*

1\) Record yourself reading the text again. Do NOT make this recording
before 11/1.

2\) Formulate some *testable hypotheses* about your voice in these two
recordings, in terms of at least four Voxit measures, WPM, and any other
pitch and timing and intensity patterns you're interested in. Include
speculative comparisons between the two recordings. Will the Voxit
measures and WPM prove to be the same? If not, how do you think they
will differ? \~50-100 words

*We will comment on, and may suggest refinements to your hypothesis for
approval, ASAP.*

*Part 4: Due by midnight on 12/8*

4\) Run the first recording sample recording through Gentle and Drift.
2) Share results: Summarize all of the Voxit data, including a table. 3)
Analyze and discuss the results of your analysis of the two recordings
of your voice reading the same text. Were your hypotheses confirmed? Why
or why not? Be sure to Include some screenshots of pitch contours from
Drift. 4) Write a brief conclusion. What did you learn from this
experiment that you might apply to future research, and to the ways you
use your voice in performative contexts? In answering this question,
consider what you learned from Eliza Jane Schneider about the voice.
1,000\~1,500 words.

**EVALUATION RUBRIC**

\"A\" assignments will do all of the following things successfully (+),
with no more than two areas that might be improved or be done more
consistently (✔).

\"B\" assignments will do all of the following things well, with a no
more than three areas to improve or do more consistently (✔) and/or one
area not done successfully (-).

\"C\" assignments will do most of the following things with multiple
areas to improve and one or two areas that are not done successfully
(-), or will fail to do one or two of the things completely while doing
others very successfully.

\"D\" assignments will do some of the following things adequately, but
will have multiple areas that require substantial improvement (often in
more than one area), or will fail to do specific things that typically
result in a \"D\".

\"F\" assignments will do some things adequately or even successfully,
but the number of areas that are not done or need major improvement will
outnumber those positive aspects.

\_\_ Part 1 provides an adequate attempt to summarize the text.

\_\_ Part I provides a clear recording of the student reading the text,
without much if any background noise.

\_\_ Part 2 provides a thoughtful, thorough and detailed response to all
of the questions.

\_\_ Part 3 provides a second clear recording of the student reading the
text, without much if any background noise.

\_\_ Part 3 clearly presents a series of precise, testable hypotheses
about the two self-recordings that consider at least four Voxit
measures, WPM, and any other pitch and timing and intensity patterns the
writer is interested in.

\_\_ Part 4 clearly presents the Voxit data in a table.

\_\_ Part 4 clearly and thoroughly summarizes the results.

\_\_ Part 4 clearly and thoroughly analyzes the results.

\_\_ Part 4 uses screenshots of pitch contours from Drift to illustrate
the results.

\_\_ Part 4 is clearly written, in focused, coherent paragraphs with
specific topic sentences and smooth, logical transitions.

\_\_ All four parts are carefully proofread and free of typos and
grammatical errors. (Proofread aloud!)

**\
**

**5-7 minute Work-in-Progress Presentation**

Brief presentation of key insights, questions and challenges so far from
either the Performative Speech Reflection & Analysis, or the
Self-Recorded Reflection & Analysis. Slides are not required, but the
Presentation must include some sound clips and discussion of using
Gentle, Drift and Voxit to analyze the recording in question.

**EVALUATION RUBRIC**

\"A\" assignments will do all of the following things successfully (+),
with no more than two areas that might be improved or be done more
consistently (✔).

\"B\" assignments will do all of the following things well, with a no
more than three areas to improve or do more consistently (✔) and/or one
area not done successfully (-).

\"C\" assignments will do most of the following things with multiple
areas to improve and one or two areas that are not done successfully
(-), or will fail to do one or two of the things completely while doing
others very successfully.

\"D\" assignments will do some of the following things adequately, but
will have multiple areas that require substantial improvement (often in
more than one area), or will fail to do specific things that typically
result in a \"D\".

\"F\" assignments will do some things adequately or even successfully,
but the number of areas that are not done or need major improvement will
outnumber those positive aspects.

\_\_ Presentation does not last fewer than 4:30 and does not exceed 7
minutes.

\_\_ Presenter does not speak too quickly or too quietly to be heard and
understood well.

\_\_ If slides or other visuals are used, presenter does not speed
through them so content can't be understood.

\_\_ If slides are used, they are free of typos and other errors.

\_\_ Presentation clearly conveys some key insights, questions and
challenges from the Performative Speech Reflection & Analysis or the
Self-Recorded Reflection & Analysis.

\_\_ Presentation includes some sound clips and discussion of using
Gentle, Drift and Voxit to analyze the recording in question.

**\
**

**Brief Reflection on EJS performance, Freedom of Speech**

*Word count*: \~500 words

*Due at 2 pm on 12/2 as a Canvas Discussion Post:*

1\) Provide a brief, objective summary of the content of the
performance. Avoid quoting more than a few words.

2\) Offer your detailed impressions of the performance, first in terms
of the content, and then in terms of your listening intuitions about
pitch and timing and intensity patterns and anything else that stood out
to you. How does the way EJS uses her voice and silence influence your
understanding of the words? Try to recall and discuss specific phrases
and words as much as you can.

**EVALUATION RUBRIC**

\"A\" assignments will do all of the following things successfully (+),
with no more than two areas that might be improved or be done more
consistently (✔).

\"B\" assignments will do all of the following things well, with a no
more than three areas to improve or do more consistently (✔) and/or one
area not done successfully (-).

\"C\" assignments will do most of the following things with multiple
areas to improve and one or two areas that are not done successfully
(-), or will fail to do one or two of the things completely while doing
others very successfully.

\"D\" assignments will do some of the following things adequately, but
will have multiple areas that require substantial improvement (often in
more than one area), or will fail to do specific things that typically
result in a \"D\".

\"F\" assignments will do some things adequately or even successfully,
but the number of areas that are not done or need major improvement will
outnumber those positive aspects.

\_\_ Reflection provides a brief, objective summary of the content of
the performance, with minimal quotations.

\_\_ Reflection offers detailed impressions of the content of the
performance.

\_\_ Reflection offers detailed impressions of the vocal aspects of
EJS's performance, with some discussion of specific phrases and words.

\_\_ Reflection is clearly written, in focused, coherent paragraphs with
specific topic sentences and smooth, logical transitions.

\_\_ Reflection is carefully proofread and free of typos and grammatical
errors. (Proofread aloud!)
