---
layout: page
title: AVAnnotate
permalink: /output_documents/AVAnnotate.html
last_name: Clement
first_name: Tanya
email: tclement@utexas.edu
institution: Texas at Austin, U. of
title_of_doc: AVAnnotate
file_name: AVAnnotate.docx
original_doc_type: Workshop
primary_discipline: 'Digital Humanities '
url: https://av-annotate.org/

# with Trent Wintermeier and Sam Turner
---

Tanya Clement, Sam Turner, and Trent Wintermeier

[*AVAnnotate*](https://av-annotate.org/) allows users to build digital
exhibits of annotated audiovisual (AV) artifacts. AVAnnotate leverages
public code and document repositories (GitHub), IIIF (International
Interoperable Image Framework) framework, and the AVAnnotate web
application to create and share IIIF manifests and user-generated
annotations of audio and video materials (Clement et al.). Tanya
Clement, Brumfield Labs, and Performant Solutions developed for
educators and scholars to enhance the usability and discoverability of
AV materials, making it an excellent tool for both research and
classroom use. This contribution is targeted towards first-year writing
instructors, but may be adapted by any educator seeking methods for
teaching students how to critically engage multimodal texts and
audiovisual materials. We offer educators a sample AVAnnotate project
using artifacts from the SpokenWeb collection and documentation as well
as a lesson plan for incorporating AVAnnotate into the first-year
writing classroom.

Educational researchers have long asked what knowledge teachers need to
teach students in a contemporary context, and that context is
increasingly one wherein "texts are elaborately multimodal, constructed
not just of print but of image, sound, and movement" (Ryan et al. 477;
Kress & van Leeuwen, 2001). Multimodal learning environments challenge
teachers in a number of areas (O'Mara, 2006; Walsh et al., 2007), and
educators and researchers have responded by creating frameworks for
multimodal analysis and critical thinking (e.g., Hodge and Kress, 1988;
Jewitt 2002, 2006, 2008; Jewitt & Kress 2003; O\'Halloran & Lim-Fei
2011; Unsworth 2001, 2007, 2008; O\'Halloran et al. 2015). In the
first-year college writing classroom in particular, teachers face
pressure to prepare students for a broad range of collegiate and
post-graduate experiences in the ever-shifting technological landscape.
Critical engagement with multimodal arguments is thus a necessity for
rhetorical education, though teacher training inconsistently prepares
educators to enact this type of composition pedagogy. Sharing
resources--like pedagogy collections and ready-made tools--is then one
way to address this challenge for teachers.

AVAnnotate is a particularly useful tool for multimodal composition
pedagogy as it requires students to extend beyond literacies stemming
from text- and print-based resources. Some of the foundational texts
frequently cited as influential in the field's explicit turn toward
multimodality in the late-1990s and early-2000s called for an
integration of audio (Comstock and Hocks; Danforth et al.) and video
(Welch 1999) in the composition classroom. Following this avenue, Mary
E. Hocks and Michelle Comstock's article, "Composing for Sound: Sonic
Rhetoric as Resonance," argue that sonic literacy is important because
writing is not simply text-based but always involves multiple semiotic
modes (see: Ceraso "Sonic Scenes of Writing," *Sound Never Tasted So
Good*; Hawhee "Rhetoric's Sensorium"; Hawk and Stuart "English
Composition as Sonic Practice"). They continue to explain how rhetoric
and writing studies scholarship and pedagogy "has worked to unseat the
privileged place of text and alphabetic literacy as the center of
composing processes" (135). Asking students to compose sound-based or
video-based assignments and to use new media technologies such as
AVAnnotate to accomplish this work increases their ability to use
multimodal methods for communicative, expressive, and rhetorical modes.

To use AVAnnotate, students must generate annotations, which Clement and
Wintermeier have described as an "affordance" of the tool that promotes
engagement with interpretive invention and other aspects of rhetorical
listening (2024/5; Ratcliffe 2005). Using annotation to facilitate
multimodal composing, students become more aware of how their listening
practices contribute to different identifications, readings, and
interpretations of audiovisual materials. Ratcliffe identifies these
"rhetorical listening moves" as essential for cross-cultural
communication (78). As Clement and Wintermeier explain, student creators
are "situated" listeners and "produc\[e\] annotations for their AV
object as they view and listen to their recording by noting significant
attributes that resonate with them . . . these annotations also guide
how an end-user engages the AVAnnotate project" (n.p.). Ultimately,
annotation affords the relationship between student creators, the
AVAnnotate software, and end users who engage with discursive and
communicative methods offered by the technology's interface.
Bursztajn-Illingworth and Wintermeier outline an example of these goals
in the "Curricular Context" section of their AVAnnotate DLF Toolkit
where they describe a class in which students used AVAnnotate to share
annotations that drew attention to how a video of an interview involved
the interviewer using specific body language to generate specific
responses of their interviewee (Bursztajn-Illingworth and Wintermeier,
n.p.). AVAnnotate projects demonstrate how students can use annotations
to generate multimodal arguments within digital contexts.

In the classroom, AVAnnotate can be used to facilitate students'
analysis of audio and visual materials. By inviting students to slow
down their reading and research practices, engage in close listening and
viewing via critical annotation, and offering a platform for students to
build their analysis of a given artifact, the lesson plan below offers
teachers a way to engage students in multimodal literacy using
AVAnnotate.

***Lesson Plan***

**90-minute First-Year Composition Annotation Discussion and
Development**

This lesson is designed to be used in a first-year writing classroom
that engages multimodal texts and literacies. This lesson plan will 1)
teach students how to critically analyze and engage audiovisual texts,
and 2) offer students a structure for multimodal composing methods via
the AVAnnotate software.

This lesson plan is based around an [*example AVAnnotate
project*](https://hipstas.github.io/spokenweb-pedagogy-sample/) that we
developed to showcase different methods of annotation that teachers and
students may be interested in utilizing and applying. The sample
AVAnnotate project we share here was developed using the 2022 SpokenWeb
reading and discussion featuring UAlberta Writer in Residence Ifeoma
Chinwuba and Edmonton Poet Laureate Titilope Sonuga, however, it is
important to note that the annotation methods we showcase in this
project can be applied to any audio and visual materials that teachers
and students are interested in engaging. We developed this lesson plan
assuming that instructors and students have already been primed to the
basics of engaging multimodal texts (according to a given curriculum or
course objective), and offer AVAnnotate as one method of doing so.

**Objectives for student learning:**

Students will...

1.  Develop a clear sense of how multimodal composition methods afford
    alternative routes of critical expression across digital contexts,
    especially through the process of annotation,

2.  Engage with institutionally-available audiovisual resources across
    campus, including how to access and utilize them for research
    purposes, and

3.  Understand the rhetorical considerations involved in annotating
    different elements of audiovisual materials and artifacts.

**1. Introduce the Assignment**

- Explain the outline and goals of the assignment. Students will generate annotations of a multimodal text using
    either a) the sample audio provided in the AVAnnotate project, or b)
    other audiovisual material at
    [*https://ualberta.aviaryplatform.com/collections/1783*](https://ualberta.aviaryplatform.com/collections/1783),
    institutional holdings, or online archives.

- Break students into groups of 4-5, depending on class size. Each
  student group should decide to use one (1) audio or video material;
  meaning each student in the group will collaboratively annotate the
  same individual object.

- Discuss the [*AVAnnotate
  templates*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lulJQN6HhVXKM73cX32c7r-sZDsPfVC2haFFEbTx4vY/edit?usp=sharing)
  students will be using during this lesson

- Questions students should be able to answer before annotating (Step
  2):

<!-- -->

- What is the structure of annotations for the AVAnnotate software?

- What is the difference between annotation and transcription?

- How does the relationship between the annotation and tag impact the
  content of the exhibit?

**2. Develop Annotations**

- Start by assigning students to listen/watch the multimodal text and
  discussing a) the current annotation sets provided, and b) ideas for
  new annotations/annotation sets. The sample project contains 3 annotation sets: Edmonton Poets
    Transcript; Edmonton Poets Captions; Readings and Discussion.

- Identify what else students could pay attention to and annotate; are
  there ways to pay attention differently to generate annotation sets
  around...

    - Medium/material (Zoom recording, audio noise, glitching)

    - Environment (background noise, non-linguistic sounds)

    - Structure (content vs. transitions)

    - Tone/affect (inflection, mood)

    - Your course's topic/themes

- Give groups \~30 minutes to develop their new annotations using the
  [*AVAnnotate
  templates*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lulJQN6HhVXKM73cX32c7r-sZDsPfVC2haFFEbTx4vY/edit?usp=sharing)

- Refer students to [*AVAnnotate\'s documentation*](https://hipstas.github.io/ava_docs/docs/HowtoUse.html)
  for guidance on how to use basic AVAnnotate functions, including
  tags, time stamps and annotations

- In each group, confirm that students are following these instructions:

  - Students should collectively decide on what to annotate (the quality
    of the audio; body language in the video; transcript of one speaker;
    etc.) and why

  - Students should collectively decide on what tags they will use to
    represent these annotations

  - Students should collectively decide on the amount of detail, length,
    and other aesthetic considers of the annotations

  - Students should collectively decide on how to break-up the audio (by
    time; tag; annotation feature; etc.)

- Finally, students will develop their annotations utilizing the
  provided [*AVAnnotate
  templates*](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lulJQN6HhVXKM73cX32c7r-sZDsPfVC2haFFEbTx4vY/edit?usp=sharing)

**3. Reflection**

- Ask students to discuss in their group what they found interesting in
  the process or content of their annotations and why. What was
  difficult about this practice?

- Reflecting on all of the annotations together, what do you notice is
  different between each student annotation set?

- If there is time, have students share major findings with the rest of
  the class

**4. Developing an AVAnnotate Project (optional)**

- Having students develop a full AVAnnotate project (collaboratively or
  individually) can be a productive activity in that students are able
  to listen/view their AV material alongside their collaborative
  annotations

- While there isn't enough time in a 50-minute period to complete a
  project, there are instructions online that students can refer to. See
  the [*AVAnnotate "How to Use"
  page*](https://av-annotate.org/how-to-use/).

- The basic outline of this can be communicated at the end of the class:

  - First, students will log into the AVAnnotate application. A GitHub
    account is required to authenticate users in the AVAnnotate software

  - Second, students will take the audiovisual file URL (ending in .mp3
    or .mp4) or the IIIF and input that into the software

  - Third, students will either

    - 1\. Upload their annotation files individually in .xlsx, .csv, or
      .tsv format

    - 2\. Upload their annotations collectively in .xlsx, .csv, or .tsv
      format

  - Fourth, students have the option to build out their exhibit in the
    AVAnnotate software, including images, context, or other details
    they wish to include

  - Fifth, an AVAnnotate project will be built and viewable as a static
    and shareable exhibit that can be turned in online or presented
    in-person during the next class
