---
layout: page
title: Critical Listening Journal
permalink: /output_documents/The_Critical_Listening_Journal_-_Initial_Questions.html
last_name: Camlot
first_name: Jason
email: jason.camlot@concordia.ca
institution: Concordia U.
title_of_doc: The Critical Listening Journal
file_name: The Critical Listening Journal - Initial Questions.docx
original_doc_type: Project
primary_discipline: Literary Studies
url: .nan

---
**The Critical Listening Journal**

A few ideas, possible questions that might be approached in your
Critical Listening Journals. This list is not prescriptive, and by no
means exhaustive.

\--Is there a theoretical stance (concerning poetics, performance, etc.)
implicit in the reading of the poem?

\--Does the performance of the poem corroborate or challenge actual
theories attributed to the poet (for example, is there an elocutionary
theory underlying the reading of "The Bells" that we listened to)?

\--What does "the literary" sound like?

\--What are the audile techniques (listening methods) of literary
studies?

\--Are spoken word performances automatically dialogical, or explicable
in terms of Goffman's concept of "footing" (in a Romantic sense, then,
antithetical to "lyric" expression)?

\--What is the status of audiotexts in relation to literary canons?

\--What role has sound and listening played in literary studies since
the nineteenth century?

\--What is the context, situation of the performance, and how does that
alter our interpretation of it?

\--What methods of notation are most effective for describing a literary
performance?

\--What are the formal scales of interpretation that inform
audiotexts---thinking of Schafer's ideas of sound objects, sound events,
soundscapes.

\--What are the important differences between the performed poem, and
the poem on the page, as regards a critical interpretation?

\--How is the written work altered in the performance?

\--In what ways does a listening audience differ from a readership?

\--How can we interpret the reading audience of a recorded literary
performance before a live audience?

\--What kinds of sociality can we hear in a documentary recording of a
literary reading?

\--What methods may we apply for interpreting the representation of
sound in printed works, as compared to the methods we may use for
interpreting audiotexts?

\--In the case of a recorded live performance: How do (visual and other)
aspects of the performance alter our understanding of the sound
recording (for instance, how does knowledge of gesture in a performance
alter our interpretation of the audiotext)? What does a video-recording
add or detract from our interpretation of a literary performance?

\-- How do we articulate the effects of a reader's intonation upon a
text? For example, how does the author\'s reading ironize or render more
serious a text?

\--How does the appearance of a \"serious\" discourse (such as poetry)
in a medium used mostly for popular entertainment alter each?

\--The impact of celebrity performance of literary works upon each.

\--What kinds of historical/cultural contexts can we construct around a
spoken recording?

\--What is the difference between reading and acting?

\--What assumptions do we bring to listening, as opposed to reading
silently (for instance, what do we simply assume when we are listening,
that we can\'t when we are reading, and vice versa)?

\--When listening to a performed literary work, do we still supply voice
(shape it to our own ideas and inner hearings) or are we simply subject
to the voice we hear.

\--How does spoken performance inform our reception of a literary work?

\--How do we explain the absence of a critical heritage concerning
literary recordings?

\--How do audiotexts alter our conception of the history of
interpretation?

\--How is (cultural) legitimacy played out in recorded poems versus
published ones?

\--What is the relationship between the recording technology and
performance? Another way of asking this: What is the relationship
between media affordances and generic ones?

\--How are temporal and rhythmic aspects of a work different in a
recording than in a printed work?

\--What were the reasons for producing the recording?

\--How does a literary work stay with us after listening as opposed to
reading silently?

\--How is our conceptual (critical) and emotional relationship to the
work different in reading it silently as compared to hearing it read out
loud?

\--What might we learn from comparing different performances of the same
text (whether contemporary or of different periods)? And comparing these
to the performance recorded by the author him/herself?

\--To what uses have specific recordings been put (i.e. relaxation
tapes, self-esteem tapes, language learning, etc.) and to what critical
effect do we interpret these differences?

\--How does a performance of a poem serve as evidence of an
"elocutionary" culture?

\--Are written texts always meant to be read aloud? What kinds of
literature resist effective reading aloud?

\--What effects might we propose sound recording technologies have (have
had) upon literary production? And, how do we go about describing and
\'proving\' these effects (i.e. what can we use as evidence for such
arguments)?

\--What effects have recorded literature had on subsequent written
literature (or subsequent literary recordings)?

\--What issues concerning \'authenticity\' and the nature of the subject
are raised by a work recorded by its author?

\--What are the difficulties of listening as opposed to reading?

\--Is there a mode of allusion or intertextuality that is specific to
recorded literature, as opposed to written? (i.e. in print we use
quotation marks, in performance we can allude to a voice or attitude
with change of tone, but not change of content?). Another version of
this: What is the nature of intertextuality in the audiotext?

\--What is the history of recorded literature as it pertains to
accessibility, disability, etc. ? (Talking Books for the blind, for the
illiterate\...)

\--Distinctions in \"navigation\" (how we work through a text or
audiotext) between listening and reading.

\--Relationship/influence of recorded music upon recorded literature?

\--Who is the audience of spoken word recordings?

\--What cultural changes have allowed for recent ascendancy of talking
books within publishing industry?

\--What is the significance of distinct sound media in audio recordings?

\--Develop ideas towards a psychology of listening/voice, a
phenomenology, a materialist history, an aesthetics, etc.
